Our understanding of the pathogenesis of acne vulgaris is still evolving. It is known that multiple factors impact acne pathophysiology, including genetic, hormonal, inflammatory, and environmental influences. Because of its implications in many of these factors, diet has been a part of the acne discussion for decades. Several studies have evaluated the significance of the glycemic index of various foods and glycemic load in patients with acne, demonstrating individuals with acne who consume diets with a low glycemic load have reduced acne lesions compared with individuals on high glycemic load diets. Dairy has also been a focus of study regarding dietary influences on acne; whey proteins responsible for the insulinotropic effects of milk may contribute more to acne development than the actual fat or dairy content. Other studies have examined the effects of omega-3 fatty acid and γ-linoleic acid consumption in individuals with acne, showing individuals with acne benefit from diets consisting of fish and healthy oils, thereby increasing omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acid intake. Recent research into the effects of probiotic administration in individuals with acne present promising results; further study of the effects of probiotics on acne is needed to support the findings of these early studies. In this review, we discuss the current evidence regarding the diets of US patients with acne and how they may impact acne and acne treatment.

Acne vulgaris is one of the most common dermatologic conditions globally [1, 2]. Unlike our knowledge regarding the heritable nature of acne and the role of hormones in acne pathogenesis, there is uncertainty regarding the role of environmental factors, including diet, in acne [3–5].

The development of acne in some populations after the adoption of a Western diet suggests that the latter plays a role in acne. Certain populations did not historically have acne: the Canadian Inuit, South African Zulus, Japanese Okinawans, Aché of Paraguay, and Kitavan islanders of Papua New Guinea. The appearance of acne in these groups has been attributed to their acceptance of Western diets, including processed foods, dairy, and refined sugars [6]. Acne is also absent in adolescents with Laron syndrome, an hereditary dwarfism disorder resulting from insensitivity to growth hormone [7]. However, some do develop acne if treatment with insulin-like growth factor (IGF-1) is undertaken. Acne resolves when IGF-1 dosing is reduced or discontinued.

Here, we examine how diet may influence acne pathogenesis, persistence, and treatment. To perform the literature search for this review, PubMed and MEDLINE were queried with combinations including but not limited to the following search terms: isotretinoin, diet and acne, glycemic index (GI) and acne, dairy and acne, and acne pathophysiology. A review of search results was performed for dates from 1977 to 2020, and relevant articles were selected. Because of the limited number of studies available, clinical studies and review articles were included if they contained information relevant to the review topic.
